projects/kafka-3-java-producer-20220423/README.md, before:

# Kafka Java Producer


----
### Kafka Java Producer

__ Scope

- Create a Java Producer for Kafka
    - Source data is a text file

- Create tests for the Java Producer
..

__ 1. The docker-compose.yml file:

```
---
version: '2'

services:
  zookeeper:
    image: confluentinc/cp-zookeeper:6.2.1
    hostname: zookeeper
    container_name: zookeeper
    ports:
      - "2181:2181"
    environment:
      ZOOKEEPER_CLIENT_PORT: 2181
      ZOOKEEPER_TICK_TIME: 2000

  broker:
    image: confluentinc/cp-kafka:6.2.1
    hostname: broker
    container_name: broker
    depends_on:
      - zookeeper
    ports:
      - "29092:29092"
    environment:
      KAFKA_BROKER_ID: 1
      KAFKA_ZOOKEEPER_CONNECT: 'zookeeper:2181'
      KAFKA_LISTENER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL_MAP: PLAINTEXT:PLAINTEXT,PLAINTEXT_HOST:PLAINTEXT
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: PLAINTEXT://broker:9092,PLAINTEXT_HOST://localhost:29092
      KAFKA_OFFSETS_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_GROUP_INITIAL_REBALANCE_DELAY_MS: 0
      KAFKA_TOOLS_LOG4J_LOGLEVEL: ERROR

  schema-registry:
    image: confluentinc/cp-schema-registry:6.2.1
    hostname: schema-registry
    container_name: schema-registry
    depends_on:
      - broker
    ports:
      - "8081:8081"
    environment:
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_HOST_NAME: schema-registry
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_KAFKASTORE_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS: 'broker:9092'
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_LOG4J_ROOT_LOGLEVEL: WARN
```
..

__ 2. Create a topic

- Open a shell in the broker service:

    docker-compose exec broker bash

- Create a topic:

        kafka-topics --create --topic output-topic \
            --bootstrap-server broker:9092 \
            --replication-factor 1 \
            --partitions 1
..
__ Issues and Fixes

- Messed up the creation and needed to delete the topic

- So go into the broker service

        docker-compose exec broker bash

- Go to where the server.properties file for Kafka is found:

        cd /etc/kafka

- Add the property at the end cos vim doesn't work in the docker image:

        cat >> server.properties
        delete.topic.enable=true
        # Press Ctrl-D to end

        cat server.properties       # Check that the line was added

- Remove the topic:

        kafka-topics --delete --topic output-topic --bootstrap-server broker:9092

- Manually delete Apache Kafka topics, 2018
    - https://contactsunny.medium.com/manually-delete-apache-kafka-topics-424c7e016ff3
    - Commands are outdated but one can guess the correct ones
..

__ 3. Create a `gradle.build` file for the project

- See: [build.gradle](build.gradle)

- Create the Gradle wrapper _after_ creating the build.gradle file
    - `gradle wrapper`

- Create a .gitignore file
..

__ 4. Setup Configuration used

- `mkdir configuration`
    - Create directory for configuration data

- Create file: configuration/dev.properties
    - This is the properties for development

..

__ 5. Create the KafkaProducer application

- Create directory
    - `mkdir -p src/main/java/com/firexis`

- Edit the file
    - `vim src/main/java/com/firexis/KafkaProducerApp.java`

- Build the shadowJar
    - `./gradlew shadowJar`

..

__ 6. Run the app

- Create a test input file: input.txt

- Run the jar:
    - `java -jar build/libs/kafka-producer-application-standalone-0.0.1.jar configuration/dev.properties input.txt`

- Check by consuming
    - `docker-compose exec broker bash`
        - Run a shell on the broker
    ```
        docker exec -it broker kafka-console-consumer --topic output-topic \
            --bootstrap-server broker:9092 \
            --from-beginning \
            --property print.key=true \
            --property key.separator=" : "
    ```
..

__ 7. Create tests

- Create a configuration file for test: `configuration/test.properties`

- Create the test application
    - `mkdir -p src/test/java/com/firexis`
        - Create the folder for the tests
    - `vim src/test/java/com/firexis/KafkaProducerAppTest.java`

- Run the test
    - `./gradlew test`

- Check results
    - `build/reports/tests/test/index.html`
..

__ 8. Run in production as a container

- Create a PROD configuration file:
    - [configuration/prod.properties](configuration/prod.properties)

- Build a docker image
    - `gradle jibDockerBuild --image=com.firexis/kafka-producer-app:0.0.1`

- Launch the container

        docker run \
            -v $PWD/configuration/prod.properties:/config.properties \
            -v $PWD/input.txt:/input.txt \
            com.firexis/kafka-producer-app:0.0.1 config.properties input.txt
..
__ Issues and Fixes

- The container is built correctly but when it runs, it complains that
  it cannot access the broker, defined as `localhost:29092` in the
  [`configuration/prod.properties`](configuration/prod.properties) file.
    - The problem is that zookeeper and the kafka brokers are in one
      docker compose environment and this producer is in another
      container and they'll not be able to talk to each other.

- Probably need to create another docker-compose file with all three of
  them
    - Rename the original docker-compose.yml to [`dc-1.yml`](dc-1.yml)
    - Create a new docker-compose.yml in [`dc-2.yml`](dc-2.yml)
    - Create symlink
        - `ln -s dc-2.yml docker-compose.yml`
..
__ Create a DockerFile instead of using Google Jib

```
    FROM openjdk:8-jre-alpine
    WORKDIR /
    COPY build/libs/kafka-producer-application-standalone-0.0.1.jar /app.jar
    COPY configuration/prod.properties /config.properties
    COPY input.txt /input.txt
    CMD [ "java", "-jar /app.jar", "/config.properties", "/input.txt"]
```

- Build the docker image
    - `docker build -t kafka-producer:0.0.2`
        - Make sure the image matches that in the `docker-compose.yml` file
..
__ Other Changes

- Make sure the `bootstrap.servers` properties in
  `configuration/prod.properties` points to `broker:9092`

- A better way to structure this is to place the Producer app in a
  sub-directory but let's fix that another way.
..

__ Notes

- This project introduces the notion of Schema Registry

- Schema Registry
    - Motivation:
        - The schema of topics change and needs to be managed
        - Eliminates runtime failures from unmaaged schema changes
    - Is:
        - a server process external to Kafka brokers
    - Does:
        - maintain a database of schemas
        - database is store in an internal Kafka topic
        - cached in Schema Registry for low latency
    - HA deployment:
        - available
    - Works by:
        - Producers send message to REST endpoint
    - Performance:
        - Producers caches the REST endpoint results
    - Supported Formats:
        - JSON, Avro, Protobuf
    - Summary:
        - Does type checking and prevents Producers from sending
          incompatible messages
        - Also prevents Consumers from ingesting incompatible messages

- See Also: Schema Evolution with Kafka Schema Registry
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qqg948wE2Gk

- The docker-compose.yml file (version 2) in this project does not have
  the below environment variables found in the
  `kafka-2-docker-compose-20220422` project (version 3):
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: 1
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1

- Summary:
    - This project does not have Kafka transactions enabled.

- See: Hands-Free Kafka Replication, 2015
    - https://www.confluent.io/blog/hands-free-kafka-replication-a-lesson-in-operational-simplicity/
    - ISR: in-sync replica

- See: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56888050
    - `Transaction state` is an internal topic created when Kafka is
      configured to use transactions
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: The minimum in-sync replica
      for the internal topic 'transaction.state'
    - - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: The replication
        factor for the internal topic 'transaction.state'

= See: https://www.confluent.io/blog/transactions-apache-kafka/
    - Transactions in Apache Kafka, 2017
..

__ Next Steps

- Create multiple brokers
    - Then increase partitions and replications

- Create more than one producer

- Use public key instead of plaintext

- Create an email connector
    - https://www.confluent.io/hub/jcustenborder/kafka-connect-email
    - https://github.com/jcustenborder/kafka-connect-email
    - https://github.com/wardziniak/kafka-connect-email

- Create a consumer group

- Study this article on the various settings:
    - https://blog.softwaremill.com/help-kafka-ate-my-data-ae2e5d3e6576

- Schema Evolution, 2020, 59:39 mins
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qqg948wE2Gk

- More Confluent Tutorials
    - https://developer.confluent.io/tutorials/#learn-the-basics

- Confluent Kafka Courses
    - https://developer.confluent.io/learn-kafka/?ajs_aid=e4ba1fec-4466-4846-bf47-8e34146f1797

- Unrelated: Fix Lenovo Bug
    - https://duckduckgo.com/?t=ffab&q=lenovo+uefi+vulnerabilities&ia=web
    - https://support.lenovo.com/us/en/product_security/ps500040-uefi-edk2-capsule-update-vulnerabilities
..

__ Links

- Apache Kafka 101: Schema Registry
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_x9RacHDQY0

- How to build your first Apache KafkaProducer application
    - https://developer.confluent.io/tutorials/creating-first-apache-kafka-producer-application/kafka.html

- Kafka Mock Producer
    - https://kafka.apache.org/25/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/clients/producer/MockProducer.html
..

Commit message:

Remove unneeded schema-registry service

projects/kafka-3-java-producer-20220423/README.md, after:

# Kafka Java Producer


----
### Kafka Java Producer

__ Scope

- Create a Java Producer for Kafka
    - Source data is a text file

- Create tests for the Java Producer
..

__ 1. The docker-compose.yml file:

```
---
version: '2'

services:
  zookeeper:
    image: confluentinc/cp-zookeeper:6.2.1
    hostname: zookeeper
    container_name: zookeeper
    ports:
      - "2181:2181"
    environment:
      ZOOKEEPER_CLIENT_PORT: 2181
      ZOOKEEPER_TICK_TIME: 2000

  broker:
    image: confluentinc/cp-kafka:6.2.1
    hostname: broker
    container_name: broker
    depends_on:
      - zookeeper
    ports:
      - "29092:29092"
    environment:
      KAFKA_BROKER_ID: 1
      KAFKA_ZOOKEEPER_CONNECT: 'zookeeper:2181'
      KAFKA_LISTENER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL_MAP: PLAINTEXT:PLAINTEXT,PLAINTEXT_HOST:PLAINTEXT
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: PLAINTEXT://broker:9092,PLAINTEXT_HOST://localhost:29092
      KAFKA_OFFSETS_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_GROUP_INITIAL_REBALANCE_DELAY_MS: 0
      KAFKA_TOOLS_LOG4J_LOGLEVEL: ERROR

  schema-registry:
    image: confluentinc/cp-schema-registry:6.2.1
    hostname: schema-registry
    container_name: schema-registry
    depends_on:
      - broker
    ports:
      - "8081:8081"
    environment:
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_HOST_NAME: schema-registry
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_KAFKASTORE_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS: 'broker:9092'
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_LOG4J_ROOT_LOGLEVEL: WARN
```
..

__ 2. Create a topic

- Open a shell in the broker service:

    docker-compose exec broker bash

- Create a topic:

        kafka-topics --create --topic output-topic \
            --bootstrap-server broker:9092 \
            --replication-factor 1 \
            --partitions 1
..
__ Issues and Fixes

- Messed up the creation and needed to delete the topic

- So go into the broker service

        docker-compose exec broker bash

- Go to where the server.properties file for Kafka is found:

        cd /etc/kafka

- Add the property at the end cos vim doesn't work in the docker image:

        cat >> server.properties
        delete.topic.enable=true
        # Press Ctrl-D to end

        cat server.properties       # Check that the line was added

- Remove the topic:

        kafka-topics --delete --topic output-topic --bootstrap-server broker:9092

- Manually delete Apache Kafka topics, 2018
    - https://contactsunny.medium.com/manually-delete-apache-kafka-topics-424c7e016ff3
    - Commands are outdated but one can guess the correct ones
..

__ 3. Create a `gradle.build` file for the project

- See: [build.gradle](build.gradle)

- Create the Gradle wrapper _after_ creating the build.gradle file
    - `gradle wrapper`

- Create a .gitignore file
..

__ 4. Setup Configuration used

- `mkdir configuration`
    - Create directory for configuration data

- Create file: configuration/dev.properties
    - This is the properties for development

..

__ 5. Create the KafkaProducer application

- Create directory
    - `mkdir -p src/main/java/com/firexis`

- Edit the file
    - `vim src/main/java/com/firexis/KafkaProducerApp.java`

- Build the shadowJar
    - `./gradlew shadowJar`

..

__ 6. Run the app

- Create a test input file: input.txt

- Run the jar:
    - `java -jar build/libs/kafka-producer-application-standalone-0.0.1.jar configuration/dev.properties input.txt`

- Check by consuming
    - `docker-compose exec broker bash`
        - Run a shell on the broker
    ```
        docker exec -it broker kafka-console-consumer --topic output-topic \
            --bootstrap-server broker:9092 \
            --from-beginning \
            --property print.key=true \
            --property key.separator=" : "
    ```
..

__ 7. Create tests

- Create a configuration file for test: `configuration/test.properties`

- Create the test application
    - `mkdir -p src/test/java/com/firexis`
        - Create the folder for the tests
    - `vim src/test/java/com/firexis/KafkaProducerAppTest.java`

- Run the test
    - `./gradlew test`

- Check results
    - `build/reports/tests/test/index.html`
..

__ 8. Run in production as a container

- Create a PROD configuration file:
    - [configuration/prod.properties](configuration/prod.properties)

- Build a docker image
    - `gradle jibDockerBuild --image=com.firexis/kafka-producer-app:0.0.1`

- Launch the container

        docker run \
            -v $PWD/configuration/prod.properties:/config.properties \
            -v $PWD/input.txt:/input.txt \
            com.firexis/kafka-producer-app:0.0.1 config.properties input.txt
..
__ Issues and Fixes

- The container is built correctly but when it runs, it complains that
  it cannot access the broker, defined as `localhost:29092` in the
  [`configuration/prod.properties`](configuration/prod.properties) file.
    - The problem is that zookeeper and the kafka brokers are in one
      docker compose environment and this producer is in another
      container and they'll not be able to talk to each other.

- Probably need to create another docker-compose file with all three of
  them
    - Rename the original docker-compose.yml to [`dc-1.yml`](dc-1.yml)
    - Create a new docker-compose.yml in [`dc-2.yml`](dc-2.yml)
    - Create symlink
        - `ln -s dc-2.yml docker-compose.yml`
..
__ Create a DockerFile instead of using Google Jib

```
    FROM openjdk:8-jre-alpine
    WORKDIR /
    COPY build/libs/kafka-producer-application-standalone-0.0.1.jar /app.jar
    COPY configuration/prod.properties /config.properties
    COPY input.txt /input.txt
    CMD [ "java", "-jar /app.jar", "/config.properties", "/input.txt"]
```

- Build the docker image
    - `docker build -t kafka-producer:0.0.2`
        - Make sure the image matches that in the `docker-compose.yml` file
    - The docker image size is about 125MB which is quite reasonable
..
__ Other Changes

- Make sure the `bootstrap.servers` properties in
  `configuration/prod.properties` points to `broker:9092`

- A better way to structure this is to place the Producer app in a
  sub-directory but let's fix that another way.

- The `schema-registry` service can be excluded without problems
    - The docker image for the `schema-registry` service is a whopping
      1.81GB
..

__ Notes

- This project introduces the notion of Schema Registry

- Schema Registry
    - Motivation:
        - The schema of topics change and needs to be managed
        - Eliminates runtime failures from unmaaged schema changes
    - Is:
        - a server process external to Kafka brokers
    - Does:
        - maintain a database of schemas
        - database is store in an internal Kafka topic
        - cached in Schema Registry for low latency
    - HA deployment:
        - available
    - Works by:
        - Producers send message to REST endpoint
    - Performance:
        - Producers caches the REST endpoint results
    - Supported Formats:
        - JSON, Avro, Protobuf
    - Summary:
        - Does type checking and prevents Producers from sending
          incompatible messages
        - Also prevents Consumers from ingesting incompatible messages

- See Also: Schema Evolution with Kafka Schema Registry
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qqg948wE2Gk

- The docker-compose.yml file (version 2) in this project does not have
  the below environment variables found in the
  `kafka-2-docker-compose-20220422` project (version 3):
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: 1
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1

- Summary:
    - This project does not have Kafka transactions enabled.

- See: Hands-Free Kafka Replication, 2015
    - https://www.confluent.io/blog/hands-free-kafka-replication-a-lesson-in-operational-simplicity/
    - ISR: in-sync replica

- See: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56888050
    - `Transaction state` is an internal topic created when Kafka is
      configured to use transactions
    - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: The minimum in-sync replica
      for the internal topic 'transaction.state'
    - - KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: The replication
        factor for the internal topic 'transaction.state'

= See: https://www.confluent.io/blog/transactions-apache-kafka/
    - Transactions in Apache Kafka, 2017
..

__ Next Steps

- Create multiple brokers
    - Then increase partitions and replications

- Create more than one producer

- Use public key instead of plaintext

- Create an email connector
    - https://www.confluent.io/hub/jcustenborder/kafka-connect-email
    - https://github.com/jcustenborder/kafka-connect-email
    - https://github.com/wardziniak/kafka-connect-email

- Create a consumer group

- Study this article on the various settings:
    - https://blog.softwaremill.com/help-kafka-ate-my-data-ae2e5d3e6576

- Schema Evolution, 2020, 59:39 mins
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qqg948wE2Gk

- More Confluent Tutorials
    - https://developer.confluent.io/tutorials/#learn-the-basics

- Confluent Kafka Courses
    - https://developer.confluent.io/learn-kafka/?ajs_aid=e4ba1fec-4466-4846-bf47-8e34146f1797

- Unrelated: Fix Lenovo Bug
    - https://duckduckgo.com/?t=ffab&q=lenovo+uefi+vulnerabilities&ia=web
    - https://support.lenovo.com/us/en/product_security/ps500040-uefi-edk2-capsule-update-vulnerabilities
..

__ Links

- Apache Kafka 101: Schema Registry
    - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_x9RacHDQY0

- How to build your first Apache KafkaProducer application
    - https://developer.confluent.io/tutorials/creating-first-apache-kafka-producer-application/kafka.html

- Kafka Mock Producer
    - https://kafka.apache.org/25/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/clients/producer/MockProducer.html
..
